## # 3 10

```
Item Effect Weight Cost
```

```
Weight is in pounds. Cost has no unit of measurement, but should be
used to determine prices relative to each other. Also note that prices of
these goods could vary greatly from location to location, so these are
only approximations.
```

- Navigation. Using skills and potentially
  navigation tools to stay on course towards your
  destination.
- Gathering Food. Either hunting, fishing, or
  foraging for food.
- Gathering Firewood. Finding wood to burn to
  cook food and stay warm.
- Finding Shelter. Finding viable places to sleep
  during the night.
  Unless otherwise noted by the GM, each of these
  activities should be performed each day of travel.

Piloting

Roll a piloting skill check against the
environment challenge number. On a failure, you
cover half as much distance this day.

Navigate

Roll a navigation skill check against the
environment challenge number. On a failure, you get
lost. While lost, you make no progress towards your
destination. The GM may roll on the _Lost in the
Wilderness_ table.

Gather Food

Whoever makes this check should decide if they
are hunting, fishing, or foraging. They should then

```
make the respective skill check against the
environment challenge number.
Hunting. You must have an appropriate weapon
to use this option. On a success, roll 1d6. On a 1–4,
you get enough rations for the party for a day. On a 5
you get enough rations for two days. On a 6, you get
enough rations for four days. If you do not build a
fire, these rations are inedible.
Fishing. You must have fishing line and hooks to
use this option. On a success, you get enough rations
for the party for one day. For every three points you
beat the CN by, you catch another day worth of
rations. If you do not build a fire, these rations are
inedible.
Foraging. On a success, you get enough rations
for the party for one day. If you beat the CN by four
points or more, you also find ingredients to make a
basic healing kit.
On a failure to gather food, the party may have to
hunt more dangerous creatures, eat unidentified
plants, eat a pack animal, or go hungry. It is up to the
GM to determine which options are available
(including any additional, unlisted ones).
```

```
Gathering Firewood
Roll a skill check to find firewood against the
environment challenge number. On a success, you
gather enough firewood to cook fish or game for
rations and to raise the temperature of wherever
people are sleeping by one tier for the night. If you
beat the CN by four points or more, you gather
enough wood for a second day as well. On a failure,
you must either burn gear or go without a fire for the
night.
```

```
Shelter
Roll a skill check to find a suitable spot for
shelter against the environment challenge number.
On a success, you find a suitable place for the party
to spend the night. On a failure, the party gets -10 on
```

```
Lo s t i n t h e W i l d e r n e s s
Result Effect
1–3 The party ends up in a dangerous
location. There could be environmental
hazards here, dangerous animals, a rival
faction, a magical curse, or anything else.
4-5 There’s no available water to be found.
6 There is no safe shelter to be found.
```

```
The GM should roll 1d6 to determine the effect of getting lost. If the
result is unrealistic, re-roll on the table.
```

the sleeping check for each point you missed the CN
by.

Scou t A he ad (Av a i l a b l e O n l y a s Ta l e n t?)

Roll at beginning of day. Increases odds of
success on any of the other rolls.

Feedback:

"During each day of the journey": I'd consider
this section in need of both a rewrite for clarity(I'm
assuming you mean the GM declares which actions
are selectible, e.g. travling on foot has no need for
piloting, traveling on a river means little need for
navigation uness there's a fork, etc.) and I'd have a
few issues with the restrictions as well. E.g. if the
party has 5 wood, I'd want to double up on campsite
or hunting). You might also want to have a "do
nothing/rest option" e.g. Fergus the Fighter got cut
up badly in that last fight, maybe he just sleeps a bit.
Or Maggie the Mage lets others do menial tasks to
meditate nd recover mana instead (to the party's
chargrin perhaps).
Captaining/piloting: On occassion you could also
have an additionl challenge to avoid damaging the
vehicle over tricky terrain, weather, etc.

- Have an encounter system, where there are
  guaranteed to be X number of situations the
  players end up in
- Break the trip into phases, and have one of
  these rolls per phase?
- Can someone do all actions? Double up on
  some? Penalties for doing so?
- Prior preparations
- Fast vs slow movement
  - Fast: no gathering resources
  - Slow: no surprises
- Scouting (bonus for slow)

```
New system:
```

```
Travel scenarios:
```

- Players travel the sea, going to a distant
  archipelago
- They wreck their ship after getting lost
- They encounter a sea monster.
- They almost die from starvation.
- Players cross stormy mountains - Snowed in, can’t move for ages. - Attacked by large animals - Can’t find firewood, almost freeze - Run out of food, starve or eat animals - Get lost, find themselves in dangerous
  area
- Players venture to the center of a barren desert - Struggle to stay cool in hottest weather.
  Forced to stop in shade in dangerous area.
- Can’t find any food to hunt

```
Getting lost means more events
```

```
First determine if you are packing food before
you go, or getting it as you travel. If you pack before
you go, you need 4 pounds of carrying capacity, per
person, per day.
```

```
During trip:
```

- Meet a stranger
- Find resources (food, magical goods,
  abandoned equipment, survival). They might not
  be easily accessible.
- An obstacle in the journey. Cliffs, wide river,
  fire swamps, etc.
- Encounter hostile individuals or faction.
  Could be people who know the players, robbers,
  or a dangerous tribe

- A scene of horror: Cursed location, creepy
  animals, creepy threats, creepy sounds. Take
  fantasy location and make it disturbing
- A request for Aid. A person or people need
  assistance
- Point of Interest: Some location or relic of a
  past culture
- Environmental or weather hazard that makes
  it impossible to find shelter, or impossible to stay
  warm or cool.
- Natural wonder
- Monster hunt: hunt or be hunted
- Deadly fight

```
Ancient Ruins guide
```

- Who built it, and when? Should have two
  things distinct to that race.
- For what?
  ARCHIVE
  2 ARTEFACT OF WAR
  3 CRYPT
  4 FORUM
  5 FOUNDRY
  6 INN
  7 MAGICAL
  8 MANOR
  9 PLACE OF BEAUTY
  10 PLACE OF WORSHIP
  11 ROAD
  12 SINISTER
- What’s it look like now?
  CRUMBLING
  2 DROWNED
  3 HOLLOW
  4 RECLAIMED
  5 RESTORED
  6 SHATTERED
- What’s it used for now?
  FORGOTTEN
  4–5 CURSED
  6–7 OCCUPIED
  8–9 INFESTED
  10–11 SANCTUARY
  12 AS INTENDED

```
Regions:
```

- Coast
- Desert
- Farmland
- Forest
- Grassland
- Sprawling City
- Hellscape
- Jungle
- Faelands
- Open Water
- Underground
- Wartorn Land

Four quarters in day. Rest/recuperation requires
two.

Determine how many events there will be.
Between each event, players should take any actions
required for their trip:

- Gather food
- Finding shelter
- Keeping watch
- Navigating
  Each action can be performed by anyone. If you
  are performing an action that someone else is
  performing as well, only one person should roll, but
  with advantage. If you are rolling for multiple
  actions, you roll all the actions with disadvantage.

Shelter

```
Get bonus from having a tent
```

Food

Failing any of the checks above results in
zooming back in.
No water: Switch to the moment. It’s morning,
and you’ve just finished the last of your water.
No food: Switch to the moment. It’s morning,
and you’ve just finished the last of your rations.
No shelter: It’s evening, and there’s no shelter
from the elements to be found. Night is falling, and
perhaps the temperature too. If you don’t sleep for a
night, take another travel phase after this one. Each
roll has disadvantage.
GM should present players with a tough choice.
Stay up all night and take a penalty, or navigate in
the dark.

```
Failed watch: if the event is other NPCs or
monsters, they surprise you before you see them
Failed navigation: You lose substantial time
before realizing your lost. Add an event to journey.
```

```
Fast pace: Players travel 25% faster, but get
disadvantage on all rolls.
Reckless pace: Players travel 50% faster but get
D2 on all rolls.
```

```
Failures resolve in any order
```

```
If players are traveling with their own food, it’s 5
pounds of food per person per day. While you have
food, you don’t need to make Gather Food check
while traveling.
If traveling with a tent (30 pounds), you have
advantage on the finding shelter check.
```
