## # 7 49 6 5

```
Rank Downtime
Weeks
```

```
Challenges Missions
```

Completing extra challenges does not count
towards future ranks.

Missions

Missions demonstrate an even greater mastery of
a particular skill. Like challenges, there are certain
criteria for a mission.

- It must represent deeper learning, mastery, or
  understanding of the skill, requiring its application
  multiple times, or a few times in critical
  circumstances. This should scale up as the rank in
  your skill increases.
- Success is uncertain, and cannot be
  automatically achieved with a single, high roll.
- There are narrative stakes to failing the roll.
  If all criteria are met and you succeed at what
  you set out to do, you may mark down the mission
  completed. Here are some examples of some skills
  and some corresponding missions.
- Playing the Lute: Perform at a prestigious
  venue with positive audience reaction.
- Painting: Get a painting commissioned for
  nobility and impress them.
- Jousting: Win the jousting tournament
  Completing extra missions does not count
  towards future ranks. However, one mission can
  satisfy the requirements for multiple skills so long as
  those skills clearly apply.

Skill & Background Overlap

If you would like to start learning a skill that you
would have picked up from your background, you
may request to start your rank in that skill at the rank
of the background. The GM has final say.

Using a Skill

Whenever you make a skill check that would
reasonably use a skill you have a rank in, you may
add your rank in the skill to the roll. If you have a

```
background that also applies, you must choose to
either use the bonus from the background or the
bonus from the skill.
If a skill only “sort of” applies, you may apply
half of your bonus, rounded down.
```

Age

When you create your character, choose an age:
young, adult, or elderly. Each age comes with
distinct benefits and drawbacks.

You n g

If you are young, you get the following
adjustments.

- You start with only two ranks worth of
  backgrounds, rather than four.
- You start with no influence.
- Add 20 to all of your sleeping checks.
- At the start of each round, you gain 1 hit point.

Adult

If you are an adult, you get the following
adjustments.

- You start with four ranks worth of
  backgrounds.
- You start with influence 1.
- Choose a life path from the Life Path section.

Elderly

If you are elderly, you get the following
adjustments.

- You start with six ranks worth of backgrounds,
  rather than four. No background can have more
  than 5 points in it.
- You start with influence 2.
- Choose a life path from the Life Path section.
- Your move speed is reduced by 30 feet.
- Your maximum hit points start at 30. It costs 1
  additional XP to increase them.

Li f e P a t h

If you are an adult or elderly, you may choose a
life path. Gain the benefits from the chosen life path.

```
Animal Handler
Examples: shepherd, stablehand, falconer,
beekeeper, animal trainer.
```

-
- You start with 25 ducat.

```
Charlatan
Examples: con artist, trickster.
```

- You may upgrade your presence die by one
  after initially assigning your dice to your abilities.
- You start with 25 ducat.

```
Combat
Examples: mercenary, gladiator, soldier, guard,
knight.
```

-
- You start with 25 ducat.

```
Crime and Espionage
Examples: thief, smuggler, fence, spy, saboteur.
```

-
- You start with 25 ducat.

```
Hunter
Examples: ranger, hunter, forager, trapper,
fisherman.
```

-
- You start with 5 ducat.

```
Inventing
Examples: alchemist, engineer, architect,
tinkerer.
```

-
- You start with 25 ducat.

```
Manual Labor
Examples: farmer, miner, lumberjack,
dockworker, construction worker.
Generic Skills: Athletics 2.
```

- You may upgrade your might die by one after
  initially assigning your dice to your abilities.
- You start with 25 ducat.

Medicine

Examples: doctor, healer, herbalist, apothecary.
Generic Skills: Medical 1
Specific Skill: Choose your specific area of
medicine. You start at rank 3.

- You start with an advanced healing kit.
- You start with 100 ducat.

Performer

```
Examples: Actor, dancer, musician
```

- You may upgrade your presence die by one
  after initially assigning your dice to your abilities.
- You start with 25 ducat.

Politician

Examples: diplomat, mayor, noble, rebel leader,
councilor.

- Increase your influence by 2.
- You start with 250 ducat.

Religion

Examples: priest, monk, nun, paladin, cultist,
oracle.

-
- You start with 25 ducat.

Schol arsh ip

Examples: scholar, historian, librarian, scribe,
researcher.

- You may upgrade your cunning die by one
  after initially assigning your dice to your abilities.
- You start with 25 ducat.

Scou t

Examples: explorer, treasure hunter, guide,
cartographer, messenger, adventurer.
